Developing conflict-agility means utilizing effective communication strategies to reduce strife
while harnessing conflict to improve outcomes. The Claim-Support-Question protocol is
highly useful here. When a solution is proposed, stating the
claim, providing evidence, and articulating provoked questions treats explanations as
thinking events. There are five main strategies for resolving conflicts:
Collaboration, Accommodation, Competition, Compromising, and Avoidance. Let us try a
short prediction. If there is an immediate safety emergency that
requires a swift decision, which strategy should be used? Collaboration
or Competition? The correct answer is Competition, or forcing, because
the emergency must be resolved instantly. Selecting the right strategy
for the context shows excellent effort in mastering conflict-agility.